# ECDSA

**Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm**

## Algorithm

### 1. Defining the Elliptic Curve

We consider some $y = f(x)$ which is an Elliptic Curve with the following parameters:

- **Field Prime $\mathbb{F}_p$:** Defines the Galois Field for each axis.
- **Generator $G$:** Starting point on the curve which is used to generate each other point using scalar multiplication.
- **Subgroup order $n$:** Prime number of points in the subgroup of points generated by $G$.
- **Scalar Field $\mathbb{Z}_n$:** Defines the Galois Field for the scalars. Note that the cyclic subgroup generated by $G$ over $\mathbb{Z}_n$ has the order of $n$.

Using which, the following parameters are generated:

- **Private key $d$:** A random element in $\mathbb{Z}_n$.
- **Public key $Q = d \cdot G$**
- **Hash function $H(m) \to z; \ m \in \mathbb{N}, z \in \mathbb{Z}_n$**

### 2. Signing a message $m$

Given an input $m \in \mathbb{N}$, $sign(m)$ produces an output $r, s$ where $r, s \in \mathbb{Z}_n$.

1. Generate a random nonce $k \in \mathbb{Z}_n$ such that $(k \cdot G) \hat{\imath} \neq 0$.
2. Take $r$ as the $x$-component of $V = k \cdot G$, i.e $r = V\hat{\imath}$. This means $r \neq 0$.
3. $z = H(m)$
4. $s = \frac{z + r \cdot d}{k}$
5. The pair $r, s$ forms the signature for the message $m$.

### 3. Verifying a message $m$ against its signature $r, s$

1. $z = H(m)$
2. $V = \frac{z}{s} \cdot G + \frac{r}{s} \cdot Q \\ v = V \hat{\imath}$
3. If $v = r$, the message is valid.

To verify the formula for $V$, subsitute $Q = d \cdot G$ and $V = k \cdot G$.

## No Message Hashing Attack

Applicable when the function $H(m)$ is reversible. This allows the attacker to generate a valid "message" $m$ for any generated $r, s$ pair.

1. Generate some $P = u \cdot G + v \cdot Q$ and $r = P \hat\imath$ where $u$ and $v$ are random elements of $\mathbb{Z}_n$.
2. Compute $s = \frac{r}{v}$.
3. Compute $m = \frac{u \cdot r}{v}$. This message $m$ is valid for $r, s$

**Explanation**

$$
k = \frac{m + r \cdot d}{s}
\\ \implies k \cdot G = \frac{m}{s} \cdot G + \frac{r}{s} \cdot d \cdot G 
\\ \implies P = u \cdot G + v \cdot Q
\\ v = \frac{r}{s} \implies s = \frac{r}{v}
\\ u = \frac{m}{s} = \frac{m \cdot v}{r} \implies m = \frac{u \cdot r}{v}
$$
## Biased-nonce Attack

One of the most common attacks for ECDSA. It is applicable when information about the nonce $k$, is known. Some common types of this attack are:

### Reused nonce

Given 2 signatures computed as follows,
$$
s_1 = \frac{z_1 + r_1 \cdot d}{k} \\
s_2 = \frac{z_2 + r_2 \cdot d}{k}
$$

Rearrange the equations to eliminate $k$
$$
\frac{z_1 + r_1 \cdot d}{s_1} = \frac{z_2 + r_2 \cdot d}{s_2}
$$

To recover the private key $d$.
$$
d = \frac{\frac{z_1}{s_1} - \frac{z_2}{s_2}}{\frac{r_2}{s_2} - \frac{r_1}{s_1}}
$$

### Zero MSb or LSb

The nonce $k$ is expected to have a bit-length close to the subgroup order of the curve $n$. If this is not the case, $d$ can be recovered using lattice-based attacks with multiple signatures. The number of signatures depends on the number of bits leaked. We assume top/bottom $l$ bits of $k$ are 0. For the full attack refer to [this amazing guide](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/032).

### Known MSb or LSb

Very similar to Zero MSb or LSb attacks, since we know the bits at certain positions, we rewrite $k$ as $k_i = k_i' + x_i$ where x is known and can be subtracted from the nonce before constructing the lattice. For the full attack refer to [this amazing guide](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/032).
